README.md, before:

# Clustering by using "snakes and dragons"

Implementation of the paper [Clustering of the structures by using "snakes & dragons" approach, or correlation matrix as a signal](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0223267)

## Datasets

1. Macroeconomics development indicators from the World Bank - [Link](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/world-development-indicators)

## Requirements

- NumPy
- Pandas
- Scikit-learn
- Tqdm

The algorithm internally uses `KMeans` multiple times on random partitions of the dataset. Although sklearn's implementation of KMeans is widely used, it is not the fastest out there. [Intel-backed DAAL's](https://github.com/IntelPython/daal4py) implementation was found to be much faster in the initial benchmarks, giving almost 6-8x speed-up. If DAAL is **not** installed, then the code will fall back to use sklearn's implementation of `KMeans`.

The recommended way to install [DAAL for python](https://github.com/IntelPython/daal4py) would be using the conda package manager:

```bash
conda install -c intel daal4py
```

## Refrences

1. The code for the consensus clustering module was (initially) partially adapted from [this repository](https://github.com/ZigaSajovic/Consensus_Clustering). Later, much of it was reworked in [this commit](https://github.com/MrinalJain17/drake/commit/0a8e98a5886ac2df2265eb907111992ebc1de019).

Commit message:

(Another) Major rework - significant design changes
- ConsensusClustering followed a state-based approach, where each function modified the state of the class variables (matrices). Eventhough the code was divided among different functions, they were highly dependent on the order of execution. This is bad code design.  Redesigned the entire class to be more modular, the functions to be more atomic, and the overall behaviour similar to sklearn's estimators.
- The ConsensusClustering class now only executes a single cluster (and not a range of cluster values).
- In order to find the best cluster value "k", the **yellowbrick** library is now being used, with the demo in the world bank notebooks. This was done so as to simplify the code base, and use existing well-tested libraries for coressponding task.
- The world bank demo is now divided among different notebooks for clarity

README.md, after:

# Clustering by using "snakes and dragons"

Implementation of the paper [Clustering of the structures by using "snakes & dragons" approach, or correlation matrix as a signal](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0223267)

## Datasets

1. Macroeconomics development indicators from the World Bank - [Link](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/world-development-indicators)

## Requirements

- NumPy
- Pandas
- Scikit-learn
- Tqdm (for displaying a progress bar)
- [Yellowbrick](https://github.com/DistrictDataLabs/yellowbrick) (provides mechanism for selecting the best number of clusters `k`, as described in the paper)
  
  To install using the conda package mamager (recommended):

  ```bash
  conda install -c districtdatalabs yellowbrick
  ```

### Optional requirements

The algorithm internally uses `KMeans` multiple times on random partitions of the entire dataset. Although sklearn's implementation of K-Means is widely used, it is not the fastest out there. [Intel-backed DAAL's](https://github.com/IntelPython/daal4py) implementation was found to be much faster in the initial benchmarks, giving almost 6-8x speed-up. If DAAL is **not** installed, then the code will fallback to use the sklearn's implementation.

The recommended way to install [DAAL for python](https://github.com/IntelPython/daal4py) would be using the conda package manager:

```bash
conda install -c intel daal4py
```

## Refrences

1. Consensus Clustering (paper): https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1023949509487
2. Consensus Clustering (blog): https://towardsdatascience.com/consensus-clustering-f5d25c98eaf2
